Kind of cofee

Cappuccino, latte, espresso

A cappuccino has equal parts espresso, steamed milk and foam (⅓ each).
A latte is ⅓ espresso and 2/3 steamed milk, with a thin layer of foam on top. 

Size: 'small', 'medium', 'big'
Small = {
espresso: '30 ml espresso'
cappuccino: '30 ml espresso', '60  ml milk'
latte: '30 ml espresso', '90  ml milk'
}


Espresso recipe
1. Turn on the espresso machine
2. Wipe the portafilter with a clean, dry cloth. 
3. Dose the coffee grounds into the portafilter. 
4. Level the dose and tamp it evenly.
5. Flush the group head. 
6. Attach the portafilter and immediately start the brewing.
7. Place the cups below the portafilter spouts.  

Cappuccino recipe
1. Prepare the espresso.
2. Pour milk to the pitcher.
3. Your machine will have built-up steam that you can now release using the steam wand. 
Purge the steam wand and pull it to far up and straight position. 
Place the pitcher so that the nozzle is aligned to the steam wand. 
Make sure the steam wand nozzle is in the middle of the pitcher and just below the milk surface. 
Tilt the pitcher a bit to optimize the whilrpool later on.
4. Switch on the steam wand. Create froth for the first couple of second 
(up until the milk has reached 37 c). While froth is created, the volume of the milk increases 
so be sure to have the steam wand nozzle close to the milk surface all the way through.
The longer you keep the nozzle close to milk surface the more froth you will create. 
5. When you have reached 37 c, rise the pitcher a bit so that the nozzle gets deeper into milk.
Make sure the nozzle does not touch the bottom of the pitcher! 
6. Find a perrfect position where the whilrpool of milk is created. 
Keep warming the milk until it reaches +55-62 c.
7. Slowly pour the milk into the cappuccino cup on top of the espresso.
8. On top put a layer of foam as thick as a layer of milk



Latte recipe
1. Prepare the espresso.
2. Pour milk to the pitcher.
3. Purge the steam wand and pull it to far up and straight position. 
Place the pitcher so that the nozzle is aligned to the steam wand. 
Make sure the steam wand nozzle is in the middle of the pitcher and just below the milk surface. 
Tilt the pitcher a bit to optimize the whilrpool later on.
4. Swith on the steam wand. Start with the nozzle just below the surface but after a second 
or two rise the pitcher a bit so that the nozzle gets deeper into milk. 
Make sure the nozzle does not touch the bottom of the pitcher! 
5. Find a perfect position where the whilrpool of milk is created. 
Keep warming the milk until it reaches +55-62 c. 
6. Slowly pour the milk into the latte glass on top of the espresso
7. Put a thin layer of foam on top


Sandwich
Ordinary or hot
White bread  or rye bread
with ham and cheese, with chicken, veg sandwich 

Ham and cheese sandwich. Recipe step by step
1. Get 2 pieces of bread
2. Spread one piece of bread with a thin layer of butter.
3. Put 2 pieces of cheese on top.
4. Put 2 pieces of ham on top.
5. Put lettuce on top.
6. Put second piece of bread on top.

Chicken sandwich. Recipe step by step
1. Get 2 pieces of bread
2. Put 1 pieces of chicken on top.
3. Add a thin layer of sauce on top of the chicken
4. Put 2 pieces of tomato on top.
5. Put second piece of bread on top.

Veg sandwich. Recipe step by step
1. Pour a little sunflower oil into the pan and heat it up.
2. Add 50 g frozen mixed vegetables to the pan, add salt and spices.
3. Fry vegetables for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.
4. Get 2 pieces of bread.
5. Put the prepared vegetable mixture on one piece of bread
6. Put lettuce on top.
7. Put second piece of bread on top.

if it's hot sandwich
1.Turn on the grill
7. Place the sandwich on the grill for 1 minute.
8.Remove the sandwich from the grill and place in a paper bag.
9.The sandwich is ready.







